Documentation for mainnet (#139)
crypto-org-chain/chain-docs: docs/getting-started/mainnet.md

# Crypto.com Mainnet: Running Nodes

This is a detailed documentation for setting up a **Validator** or a **Full Node** on Crypto.org mainnet.

## Pre-requisites

### Supported OS

We officially support macOS, Windows and Linux only. Other platforms may work, but there is no guarantee. We will extend our support to other platforms after we have stabilized our current architecture.

### Prepare your machine

- For Crypto.org Chain mainnet, you will need a machine with the following minimum requirements:

  - 4-core, x86_64 architecture processor;
  - 16 GB RAM;
  - 1 TB of storage space.

## Step 1. Get the Crypto.org Chain Mainnet binary

::: tip Remarks:

> The following is the minimal setup to join Crypto.org Chain Mainnet. Furthermore, you may want to run full nodes as sentries (see [Tendermint](https://docs.tendermint.com/master/tendermint-core/running-in-production.html)), restrict your validator connections to only connect to your full nodes, test secure storage of validator keys etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is the minimal setup to join Crypto.org Chain Mainnet. Furthermore, you may want to run full nodes as sentries (see [Tendermint](https://docs.tendermint.com/master/tendermint-core/running-in-production.html)), restrict your validator connections to only connect to your full nodes, use secure storage and [key management](https://crypto.org/docs/getting-started/advanced-tmkms-integration.html) service for your validator keys etc.
```

Author: [Edited](https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/chain-docs/pull/139/commits/58b41340e73ddf740bc29edb2d74275013516641#diff-a556d8b640301c4c0d15e1f6cfb9b8b1d021a9d56d933eac621cab44a873802cL26)

  BLOCK_HEIGHT=$((LATEST_HEIGHT - 1000)); \
  TRUST_HASH=$(curl -s "https://mainnet.crypto.org:26657/block?height=$BLOCK_HEIGHT" | jq -r .result.block_id.hash)

  $ sed -i.bak -E "s|^(enable[[:space:]]+=[[:space:]]+).*$|\1true| ; \
  s|^(rpc_servers[[:space:]]+=[[:space:]]+).*$|\1\"https://mainnet.crypto.org:26657,https://mainnet.crypto.org:26657\"| ; \
  s|^(trust_height[[:space:]]+=[[:space:]]+).*$|\1$BLOCK_HEIGHT| ; \
  s|^(trust_hash[[:space:]]+=[[:space:]]+).*$|\1\"$TRUST_HASH\"| ; \
  s|^(seeds[[:space:]]+=[[:space:]]+).*$|\1\"\"|" ~/.chain-maind/config/config.toml
  ```
##############################[TODO]- update seed,genesis - [TODO]##############################
## Step 3. Run everything

::: warning CAUTION
This page only shows the minimal setup for validator node.

In production, you may want to run full nodes
as sentries (see [Tendermint](https://docs.tendermint.com/master/tendermint-core/running-in-production.html)), restrict your validator connections to only connect to your full nodes, test secure storage of validator keys with [tmkms](https://github.com/iqlusioninc/tmkms) etc.

> :::

Reviewer: Duplicated as above? (below step 1)

Author: Nice catch 👍

Author: [Removed](https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/chain-docs/pull/139/commits/58b41340e73ddf740bc29edb2d74275013516641#diff-a556d8b640301c4c0d15e1f6cfb9b8b1d021a9d56d933eac621cab44a873802cL151)

### Step 3-1. Create a new key and address

Run the followings to create a new key. For example, you can create a key with the name `Default` by:

> 

Reviewer: I think here we should not suggest the use of chain-maind directly without any secure instructions. Maybe the better way is to redirect them to the mainnet address generation guide: https://crypto.org/docs/wallets/mainnet-address-generation.html

Author: Nice suggestion :D

Author: Added, see this [link](https://github.com/crypto-org-chain/chain-docs/pull/139/commits/58b41340e73ddf740bc29edb2d74275013516641#diff-a556d8b640301c4c0d15e1f6cfb9b8b1d021a9d56d933eac621cab44a873802cR161)

  :::

### Step 3-6. Check your validator status
Once the `create-validator` transaction completes, you can check if your validator has been added to the validator set:

```bash
$ ./chain-maind tendermint show-address
## [crocnclcons... address] ##
$ ./chain-maind query tendermint-validator-set | grep -c [crocnclcons...]
## 1 = Yes; 0 = Not yet added ##
```

To further check if the validator is signing blocks, kindly run this [script](https://github.com/crypto-com/chain-docs/blob/master/docs/getting-started/assets/signature_checking/check-validator-up.sh), for example:

```bash
$ curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/crypto-org-chain/chain-docs/master/docs/getting-started/assets/signature_checking/check-validator-up.sh | bash -s -- \
--tendermint-url https://mainnet.crypto.org:26657 \
--pubkey $(cat ~/.chain-maind/config/priv_validator_key.json | jq -r '.pub_key.value')

The validator is in the active validator set under the address  <YOUR_VALIDATOR_ADDRESS>
The validator is signing @ Block#<BLOCK_HEIGHT> 👍
```

> Alternatively, you can run it on this [browser based IDE](https://repl.it/@allthatjazzleo/cryptocomcheckNodeJoinStatus#main.go), by specifying your validator public key in the `"YOUR_PUBKEY"` field, where this key can be obtained by running

Reviewer: Is the script pointing to mainnet or testnet now?

Author: I planed to remove this browser based IDE version of the signature checking script.
